README.md, before:

Notes
============

Notes is a simple CLI program for taking notes in Markdown using your preferred text editor.

This is mostly for my personal use. I'll admit to taking a few shortcuts so my code isn't the prettiest thing in the world. But it works for me.

Suggested Dependencies
--------------------------
- I recommend using [Neovim](https://neovim.io/) as your editor with [Vim-Plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) and [Goyo](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim). I really feel that `nvim` with these plugins is what really makes this nice for me.
- [Ag](https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher) is used for searching. It's faster than `grep`, which is used in it's place if `ag` couldn't be found.

![Note taking demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dbluhm/bash-notes/master/notes.gif)

Getting Started
---------------------
The `notes.sh` command will by default create your notes and notebooks inside of `$HOME/.notes`.
You can change this option by changing the value of `NOTESDIR` in `notes.sh`. Note that this value will also need to be changed in the notes_completion file as well or tab completion will not work.

### Installation ###
Installing notes is incredibly simple. Just symlink `notes.sh` to an appropriate location like `~/.local/bin` as `notes`:

```bash
ln -s ~/PATH_TO_NOTES_EXEC_DIR/notes.sh ~/.local/bin/notes
```

Next, in order to enable tab completion, notes_completion needs to be included by your `.bashrc` file. This is commonly done by including a whole `bash-completion.d` directory or simply sourcing the file.

If you use the `bash-completion.d` method, ensure something like the following is included in your `.bashrc` or `.profile`:

```bash
# Local bash completions
if [ -d ~/.bash-completion.d ]; then
    for f in ~/.bash-completion.d/*
    do
        source $f
    done
fi
```

Then make sure that `notes_completion` is symlinked into the `bash-completion.d` directory.

If you choose to just source `notes_completion` into your `.bashrc`, then the following is sufficient:

```bash
#Source notes_completion for tab completion
source ~/PATH_TO_NOTES_EXEC/notes_completion
```

You should now be able to use the `notes` command and have tab completion.

### Usage ###

Notes, having been intended to be simple, it's command line arguments are hopefully pretty straightforward.
Let's take a look at how to use notes by creating our first notebook and adding some notes to it.

```bash
notes --add my_first_notebook
```

>**NOTE:** As of right now, note or notebook names with spaces are not supported

This will basically just create a folder inside of your notes directory called `my_first_notebook`. That's it. That's all a "notebook" is.

Now let's add a note to this notebook:

```bash
notes my_first_notebook my_first_note
```
*There should have been tab completion on the notebook name*

This will open up your preferred editor as defined by the EDITOR environment variable, putting preference on `nvim` if it is present. You may now edit and save your note as you normally would.

*This README is a work in progress.*

Commit message:

Add usage text, improve readme

README.md, after:

Notes
============

Notes is a simple CLI program for taking notes in Markdown using your preferred text editor.

This is mostly for my personal use. I'll admit to taking a few shortcuts so my code isn't the prettiest thing in the world. But it works for me.

Suggested Dependencies
--------------------------
- I recommend using [Neovim](https://neovim.io/) as your editor with [Vim-Plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) and [Goyo](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim). Using Vim or NeoVim allows you to create and edit your notes exactly the way you want.
- [Ag](https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher) is used for searching. It's faster than `grep`, which is used in it's place if `ag` can't be found.


Getting Started
---------------------
The `notes.sh` command will by default create your notes and notebooks inside of `$HOME/.notes`.
You can change this option by changing the value of `NOTESDIR` in `notes.sh`. Note that this value will also need to be changed in the notes_completion file as well or tab completion will not work.

### Installation ###
Installing notes is incredibly simple. Just symlink `notes.sh` to an appropriate location like `~/.local/bin` as `notes`:

```bash
ln -s ~/PATH_TO_NOTES_EXEC_DIR/notes.sh ~/.local/bin/notes
```

Next, in order to enable tab completion, notes_completion needs to be included by your `.bashrc` file. This is commonly done by including a whole `bash-completion.d` directory or simply sourcing the file.

If you use the `bash-completion.d` method, ensure something like the following is included in your `.bashrc` or `.profile`:

```bash
# Local bash completions
if [ -d ~/.bash-completion.d ]; then
    for f in ~/.bash-completion.d/*
    do
        source $f
    done
fi
```

Then make sure that `notes_completion` is symlinked into the `bash-completion.d` directory.

If you choose to just source `notes_completion` into your `.bashrc`, then the following is sufficient:

```bash
#Source notes_completion for tab completion
source ~/PATH_TO_NOTES_EXEC/notes_completion
```

You should now be able to use the `notes` command and have tab completion.

![Note taking demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dbluhm/bash-notes/master/notes.gif)

### Usage ###

```
Usage:
	notes notebook [note]
		Edit or create a note. Omitting a note name will create a new note but
		leave it unnamed.

	notes [--search|-s] SEARCH_TERM
		Search notes for SEARCH_TERM.

	notes [--remove|-r] notebook [note]
		Remove an entire notebook or just a note within a notebook.

	notes [--add|-a] notebook
		Create a new notebook
```
